README.md, before:

# zkEVM DataStreamer

Go implementation of a generic fast data streamer library. 

**Use case for the zkEVM Node**: Sequencer data stream service to stream L2 blocks and L2 txs.

![zkEVM DataSreamer diagram](doc/data-streamer.png)

## GENERAL DIAGRAM
Description of the diagram elements:

- **Sequencer**: uses the data streamer library through the API to send L2 blocks and L2 transactions to the stream. It's an use case of the datastreamer component.

- **Data Streamer**: creates the stream server, it manages the stream file and allows stream clients to connect using a TCP socket. For such stream clients, it offers a series of commands via the TCP port.

- **Stream File**: stores all the streaming data. It is a custom binary file organized into data pages with a preceding header page.

- **Bookmarks DB**: stores an index for the bookmarks that are available in the streaming file. It uses a LevelDB using the library [goleveldb](https://github.com/syndtr/goleveldb).

- **Streamer Client**: creates a stream client, it manages the data streamer connection and allows to execute the TCP commands available in the server.

## STREAM FILE
The binary file format is described below.

### Header page
- The first page is the header. 
- Header page size = 4096 bytes

#### Magic numbers
At the beginning of the file there are the following magic bytes (file signature): `polygonDATSTREAM`

#### HEADER ENTRY format (HeaderEntry)
>u8 packetType = 1 // 1:Header  
>u32 headerLength = 38 // Total length of header entry  
>u8 Version // Stream file version (starting from 1)  
>u64 SystemID // E.g.: ChainID  
>u64 streamType // 1:Sequencer  
>u64 TotalLength // Total bytes used in the file  
>u64 TotalEntries // Total number of data entries  

### Data page
- From the second page starts the data pages.  
- Page size = 1 MB

#### DATA ENTRY format (FileEntry)
>u8 packetType // 2:Data entry, 0:Padding  
>u32 Length // Total length of data entry (17 bytes + length(data))  
>u32 Type // 0xb0:Bookmark, 1:Event1, 2:Event2,...  
>u64 Number // Entry number (sequential starting with 0)  
>u8[] data  

NOTE: If an entry does not fit in the remaining page space, the entry will be stored in the next page.

### File diagram
![Alt](doc/data-streamer-bin-file.drawio.png)

## STREAM TCP COMMANDS
- All the commands available for the stream clients return first a response, a `Result` entry defined in a later section.
- Some commands like `Start` or `Header` may return more data.

Below is the detail of the available commands:

### Start 
Syncs from the entry number (`fromEntryNumber`) and starts receiving data streaming from that entry. 

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 1  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  
>u64 fromEntryNumber  

If already started terminates the connection.

### StartBookmark
Syncs from the bookmark (`fromBookmark`) and starts receiving data streaming from the entry pointed by that bookmark.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 4  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  
>u32 bookmarkLength // Length of fromBookmark (Max bookmark length value is 16)  
>u8[] fromBookmark  

If already started or `bookmarkLength` exceeds the maximum length, terminates the connection.

### Stop
Stops the reception of the streaming transmission.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 2  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  

If not started terminates the connection.

### GetHeader 
Gets the current stream file header (`HeaderEntry` format defined in the [STREAM FILE](#stream-file) section), so stream clients can know the total number of entries and the size of the stream file.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 3  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  

If streaming already started terminates the connection.

### GetEntry
Gets the data from the entry (`entryNumber`) in the format `FileEntry` defined in the [STREAM FILE](#stream-file) section).

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 4  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  
>u64 entryNumber  

If streaming already started terminates the connection.

### GetBookmark
Gets the data from the entry pointed by the bookmark (`bookmark`) in the format `FileEntry` defined in the [STREAM FILE](#stream-file) section).

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 5  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  
>u32 bookmarkLength // Length of bookmark (Max bookmark length value is 16)  
>u8[] bookmark  

If streaming already started or `bookmarkLength` exceeds the maximum length, terminates the connection.

### RESULT FORMAT (ResultEntry)
Remember that all these TCP commands firstly return a response in the following detailed format:
>u8 packetType // 0xff:Result  
>u32 length // Total length of the entry  
>u32 errorNum // Error code (0:OK)  
>u8[] errorStr

## BOOKMARKS
Bookmarks make possible to the clients to sync the streaming from a business logic point.
- No need to store the latest `stream entry number` received.
- Using the API, bookmarks to business logic data are added in the send data to stream implementation.
- e.g. zkEVM Sequencer streaming: each L2 block number has its own bookmark. Clients can request to start the stream from a L2 block number.

## STREAM RELAY
Stream relay server included in the datastream library allows scaling the number of stream connected clients.

![Datastream relay diagram](doc/data-streamer-relay.png)

- **Data Streamer Relay** acts as a `stream client` towards the main data stream server, and also acts as a `stream server` towards the stream clients connected to it.


## DATA STREAMER INTERFACE (API)
### SERVER API
- Create and start a datastream server (`StreamServer`) using the `NewServer` function followed by the `Start` function.
- Send data to stream by starting an atomic operation through `StartAtomicOp`, adding entry events (`AddStreamEntry`) and bookmarks (`AddStreamBookmark`), and commit the operation `CommitAtomicOp`.

#### Send data API
- StartAtomicOp()  
- AddStreamBookmark(u8[] bookmark) -> returns u64 entryNumber  
- AddStreamEntry(u32 entryType, u8[] data) -> returns u64 entryNumber  
- CommitAtomicOp()  
- RollbackAtomicOp()  

#### Query data API
- GetHeader() -> returns struct HeaderEntry
- GetEntry(u64 entryNumber) -> returns struct FileEntry
- GetBookmark(u8[] bookmark) -> returns u64 entryNumber
- GetFirstEventAfterBookmark(u8[] bookmark) -> returns struct FileEntry
- GetDataBetweenBookmarks(bookmarkFrom []byte, bookmarkTo []byte) ([]byte, error) -> returns the array of data, ignoring bookmarks, between the given ones

#### Update data API
- UpdateEntryData(u64 entryNumber, u32 entryType, u8[] newData)

### CLIENT API
- Create and start a datastream client (`StreamClient`) using the `NewClient` function followed by the `Start` function.
- Executes server commands by calling `ExecCommandStart`, `ExecCommandStartBookmark`, `ExecCommandGetHeader`, `ExecCommandGetEntry`, `ExecCommandGetBookmark`, or `ExecCommandStop`.

#### Streaming API
- ExecCommandStart(fromEntry): Initiates the stream starting from the entry number specified in the parameter.
- ExecCommandStartBookmark(fromBookmark): Initiates the stream starting from the entry pointed by the bookmark specified in the parameter.
- ExecCommandStop(): Stops receiving stream.
- SetProcessEntryFunc(f `ProcessEntryFunc`): Sets the callback function for each entry received. Overrides default function that just prints the entry fields.

#### Query data API
- ExecCommandGetHeader() -> returns struct HeaderEntry: Fetches stream file header info and returns it.
- ExecCommandGetEntry(fromEntry) -> returns struct FileEntry: Fetches entry data from the specified entry number and returns it.
- ExecCommandGetBookmark(fromBookmark) -> returns struct FileEntry: Fetches entry data pointed by the specified bookmark and returns it.

## DATASTREAM CLI DEMO APP
Build the binary datastream demo app (`dsapp`):
```
make build-dsapp
```
Run the app without parameters to see the available commands:
```
./dsapp
```
```
NAME:
   dsapp - Run a datastream server/client/relay demo cli app

USAGE:
   dsapp [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]

COMMANDS:
   server   Run datastream server
   client   Run datastream client
   relay    Run datastream relay
   help, h  Shows a list of commands or help for one command

GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   --help, -h  show help
```
### SERVER
Use the help option to check available parameters for the server command:
```
./dsapp help server
```
```
NAME:
   dsapp server - Run datastream server

USAGE:
   dsapp server [command options] [arguments...]

OPTIONS:
   --port value   exposed port for clients to connect (default: 6900)
   --file value   datastream data file name (*.bin) (default: datastream.bin)
   --log value    log level (debug|info|warn|error) (default: info)
   --sleep value  initial sleep and sleep between atomic operations in ms (default: 0)
   --opers value  number of atomic operations (server will terminate after them) (default: 1000000)
   --help, -h     show help
```
Run a datastream server with default parameters (port: `6900`, file: `datastream.bin`, log: `info`):
```
./dsapp server
```
Or run a datastream server with custom parameters:
```
./dsapp server --port 6969 --file seqstream.bin --log warn
```
### CLIENT
Use the help option to check available parameters for the client command:
```
./dsapp help client
```
```
NAME:
   dsapp client - Run datastream client

USAGE:
   dsapp client [command options] [arguments...]

OPTIONS:
   --server value        datastream server address to connect (IP:port) (default: 127.0.0.1:6900)
   --from value          entry number to start the sync/streaming from (latest|0..N) (default: latest)
   --frombookmark value  bookmark to start the sync/streaming from (0..N) (has preference over --from parameter)
   --header              query file header information (default: false)
   --entry value         entry number to query data (0..N)
   --bookmark value      entry bookmark to query entry data pointed by it (0..N)
   --log value           log level (debug|info|warn|error) (default: info)
   --help, -h            show help
```
Run a datastream client with default parameters (server: `127.0.0.1:6900`, from: `latest`, log: `info`)
```
./dsapp client
```
Or run a datastream client with custom parameters:
```
./dsapp client --server 127.0.0.1:6969 --from 0 --log debug
```
Or just get the current stream header file information:
```
./dsapp client --server 127.0.0.1:6969 --header
```
### RELAY
Use the help option to check available parameters for the relay command:
```
./dsapp help relay
```
```
NAME:
   dsapp relay - Run datastream relay

USAGE:
   dsapp relay [command options] [arguments...]

OPTIONS:
   --server value  datastream server address to connect (IP:port) (default: 127.0.0.1:6900)
   --port value    exposed port for clients to connect (default: 7900)
   --file value    relay data file name (*.bin) (default: datarelay.bin)
   --log value     log level (debug|info|warn|error) (default: info)
   --help, -h      show help
```
Run a datastream relay with default parameters (server: `127.0.0.1:6900`, port: `7900`, file: `datarelay.bin`, log: `info`)
```
./dsapp relay
```

## USE CASE: zkEVM SEQUENCER ENTRIES
Sequencer data stream service to stream L2 blocks and L2 txs

List of events (entry types):

### BatchStart:
uint64 number
BatchType type
uint64 fork_id
uint64 chain_id
Debug debug

### BatchEnd:
uint64 number
bytes local_exit_root
bytes state_root
Debug debug

### L2Block:
uint64 number
uint64 batch_number
uint64 timestamp
uint32 delta_timestamp
uint64 min_timestamp
bytes l1_blockhash
uint32 l1_infotree_index
bytes hash
bytes state_root
bytes global_exit_root
bytes coinbase
uint64 block_gas_limit
bytes block_info_root
Debug debug

### L2BlockEnd:
uint64 number

### Transaction:
uint64 l2block_number
uint64 index
bool is_valid
bytes encoded
uint32 effective_gas_price_percentage
bytes im_state_root
Debug debug

### UpdateGER:
uint64 batch_number
uint64 timestamp
bytes global_exit_root
bytes coinbase
uint64 fork_id
uint64 chain_id
bytes state_root
Debug debug

### BookMark:
BookmarkType type
uint64 value

### Debug:
string message

### BookmarkType:
BOOKMARK_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED = 0;
BOOKMARK_TYPE_BATCH = 1;
BOOKMARK_TYPE_L2_BLOCK = 2;

### EntryType:
ENTRY_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED = 0;
ENTRY_TYPE_BATCH_START = 1;
ENTRY_TYPE_L2_BLOCK = 2;
ENTRY_TYPE_TRANSACTION = 3;
ENTRY_TYPE_BATCH_END = 4;
ENTRY_TYPE_UPDATE_GER = 5;
ENTRY_TYPE_L2_BLOCK_END = 6;

### BatchType:
BATCH_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED = 0;
BATCH_TYPE_REGULAR = 1;
BATCH_TYPE_FORCED = 2;
BATCH_TYPE_INJECTED = 3;
BATCH_TYPE_INVALID = 4;

Commit message:

feat: Add Noop command for keep-alive
Introduces a new `CmdNoop` (code 7) to the datastreamer TCP protocol.

This command allows clients to send a no-operation message to the server, primarily intended to keep the TCP connection alive and prevent timeouts due to inactivity.

Changes include:
- Defined `CmdNoop` constant and added handling in `streamserver.go`.
- Added `ExecCommandNoop` function to `streamclient.go`.
- Updated the `IsACommand` validity check to include `CmdNoop`.
- Documented the new command in `README.md`.

README.md, after:

# zkEVM DataStreamer

Go implementation of a generic fast data streamer library. 

**Use case for the zkEVM Node**: Sequencer data stream service to stream L2 blocks and L2 txs.

![zkEVM DataSreamer diagram](doc/data-streamer.png)

## GENERAL DIAGRAM
Description of the diagram elements:

- **Sequencer**: uses the data streamer library through the API to send L2 blocks and L2 transactions to the stream. It's an use case of the datastreamer component.

- **Data Streamer**: creates the stream server, it manages the stream file and allows stream clients to connect using a TCP socket. For such stream clients, it offers a series of commands via the TCP port.

- **Stream File**: stores all the streaming data. It is a custom binary file organized into data pages with a preceding header page.

- **Bookmarks DB**: stores an index for the bookmarks that are available in the streaming file. It uses a LevelDB using the library [goleveldb](https://github.com/syndtr/goleveldb).

- **Streamer Client**: creates a stream client, it manages the data streamer connection and allows to execute the TCP commands available in the server.

## STREAM FILE
The binary file format is described below.

### Header page
- The first page is the header. 
- Header page size = 4096 bytes

#### Magic numbers
At the beginning of the file there are the following magic bytes (file signature): `polygonDATSTREAM`

#### HEADER ENTRY format (HeaderEntry)
>u8 packetType = 1 // 1:Header  
>u32 headerLength = 38 // Total length of header entry  
>u8 Version // Stream file version (starting from 1)  
>u64 SystemID // E.g.: ChainID  
>u64 streamType // 1:Sequencer  
>u64 TotalLength // Total bytes used in the file  
>u64 TotalEntries // Total number of data entries  

### Data page
- From the second page starts the data pages.  
- Page size = 1 MB

#### DATA ENTRY format (FileEntry)
>u8 packetType // 2:Data entry, 0:Padding  
>u32 Length // Total length of data entry (17 bytes + length(data))  
>u32 Type // 0xb0:Bookmark, 1:Event1, 2:Event2,...  
>u64 Number // Entry number (sequential starting with 0)  
>u8[] data  

NOTE: If an entry does not fit in the remaining page space, the entry will be stored in the next page.

### File diagram
![Alt](doc/data-streamer-bin-file.drawio.png)

## STREAM TCP COMMANDS
- All the commands available for the stream clients return first a response, a `Result` entry defined in a later section.
- Some commands like `Start` or `Header` may return more data.

Below is the detail of the available commands:

### Start 
Syncs from the entry number (`fromEntryNumber`) and starts receiving data streaming from that entry. 

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 1  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  
>u64 fromEntryNumber  

If already started terminates the connection.

### StartBookmark
Syncs from the bookmark (`fromBookmark`) and starts receiving data streaming from the entry pointed by that bookmark.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 4  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  
>u32 bookmarkLength // Length of fromBookmark (Max bookmark length value is 16)  
>u8[] fromBookmark  

If already started or `bookmarkLength` exceeds the maximum length, terminates the connection.

### Stop
Stops the reception of the streaming transmission.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 2  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  

If not started terminates the connection.

### GetHeader 
Gets the current stream file header (`HeaderEntry` format defined in the [STREAM FILE](#stream-file) section), so stream clients can know the total number of entries and the size of the stream file.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 3  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  

If streaming already started terminates the connection.

### GetEntry
Gets the data from the entry (`entryNumber`) in the format `FileEntry` defined in the [STREAM FILE](#stream-file) section).

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 4  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  
>u64 entryNumber  

If streaming already started terminates the connection.

### GetBookmark
Gets the data from the entry pointed by the bookmark (`bookmark`) in the format `FileEntry` defined in the [STREAM FILE](#stream-file) section).

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 5  
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer  
>u32 bookmarkLength // Length of bookmark (Max bookmark length value is 16)  
>u8[] bookmark  

If streaming already started or `bookmarkLength` exceeds the maximum length, terminates the connection.

### Noop
Sends a No-Operation command to the server. This is useful for keeping the TCP connection alive, preventing it from being closed due to inactivity by network intermediaries or the server's own inactivity timeout.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 7
>u64 streamType // e.g. 1:Sequencer

This command takes no additional parameters and only returns the standard Result entry.

### RESULT FORMAT (ResultEntry)
Remember that all these TCP commands firstly return a response in the following detailed format:
>u8 packetType // 0xff:Result  
>u32 length // Total length of the entry  
>u32 errorNum // Error code (0:OK)  
>u8[] errorStr

## BOOKMARKS
Bookmarks make possible to the clients to sync the streaming from a business logic point.
- No need to store the latest `stream entry number` received.
- Using the API, bookmarks to business logic data are added in the send data to stream implementation.
- e.g. zkEVM Sequencer streaming: each L2 block number has its own bookmark. Clients can request to start the stream from a L2 block number.

## STREAM RELAY
Stream relay server included in the datastream library allows scaling the number of stream connected clients.

![Datastream relay diagram](doc/data-streamer-relay.png)

- **Data Streamer Relay** acts as a `stream client` towards the main data stream server, and also acts as a `stream server` towards the stream clients connected to it.


## DATA STREAMER INTERFACE (API)
### SERVER API
- Create and start a datastream server (`StreamServer`) using the `NewServer` function followed by the `Start` function.
- Send data to stream by starting an atomic operation through `StartAtomicOp`, adding entry events (`AddStreamEntry`) and bookmarks (`AddStreamBookmark`), and commit the operation `CommitAtomicOp`.

#### Send data API
- StartAtomicOp()  
- AddStreamBookmark(u8[] bookmark) -> returns u64 entryNumber  
- AddStreamEntry(u32 entryType, u8[] data) -> returns u64 entryNumber  
- CommitAtomicOp()  
- RollbackAtomicOp()  

#### Query data API
- GetHeader() -> returns struct HeaderEntry
- GetEntry(u64 entryNumber) -> returns struct FileEntry
- GetBookmark(u8[] bookmark) -> returns u64 entryNumber
- GetFirstEventAfterBookmark(u8[] bookmark) -> returns struct FileEntry
- GetDataBetweenBookmarks(bookmarkFrom []byte, bookmarkTo []byte) ([]byte, error) -> returns the array of data, ignoring bookmarks, between the given ones

#### Update data API
- UpdateEntryData(u64 entryNumber, u32 entryType, u8[] newData)

### CLIENT API
- Create and start a datastream client (`StreamClient`) using the `NewClient` function followed by the `Start` function.
- Executes server commands by calling `ExecCommandStart`, `ExecCommandStartBookmark`, `ExecCommandGetHeader`, `ExecCommandGetEntry`, `ExecCommandGetBookmark`, or `ExecCommandStop`.

#### Streaming API
- ExecCommandStart(fromEntry): Initiates the stream starting from the entry number specified in the parameter.
- ExecCommandStartBookmark(fromBookmark): Initiates the stream starting from the entry pointed by the bookmark specified in the parameter.
- ExecCommandStop(): Stops receiving stream.
- SetProcessEntryFunc(f `ProcessEntryFunc`): Sets the callback function for each entry received. Overrides default function that just prints the entry fields.

#### Query data API
- ExecCommandGetHeader() -> returns struct HeaderEntry: Fetches stream file header info and returns it.
- ExecCommandGetEntry(fromEntry) -> returns struct FileEntry: Fetches entry data from the specified entry number and returns it.
- ExecCommandGetBookmark(fromBookmark) -> returns struct FileEntry: Fetches entry data pointed by the specified bookmark and returns it.

## DATASTREAM CLI DEMO APP
Build the binary datastream demo app (`dsapp`):
```
make build-dsapp
```
Run the app without parameters to see the available commands:
```
./dsapp
```
```
NAME:
   dsapp - Run a datastream server/client/relay demo cli app

USAGE:
   dsapp [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]

COMMANDS:
   server   Run datastream server
   client   Run datastream client
   relay    Run datastream relay
   help, h  Shows a list of commands or help for one command

GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   --help, -h  show help
```
### SERVER
Use the help option to check available parameters for the server command:
```
./dsapp help server
```
```
NAME:
   dsapp server - Run datastream server

USAGE:
   dsapp server [command options] [arguments...]

OPTIONS:
   --port value   exposed port for clients to connect (default: 6900)
   --file value   datastream data file name (*.bin) (default: datastream.bin)
   --log value    log level (debug|info|warn|error) (default: info)
   --sleep value  initial sleep and sleep between atomic operations in ms (default: 0)
   --opers value  number of atomic operations (server will terminate after them) (default: 1000000)
   --help, -h     show help
```
Run a datastream server with default parameters (port: `6900`, file: `datastream.bin`, log: `info`):
```
./dsapp server
```
Or run a datastream server with custom parameters:
```
./dsapp server --port 6969 --file seqstream.bin --log warn
```
### CLIENT
Use the help option to check available parameters for the client command:
```
./dsapp help client
```
```
NAME:
   dsapp client - Run datastream client

USAGE:
   dsapp client [command options] [arguments...]

OPTIONS:
   --server value        datastream server address to connect (IP:port) (default: 127.0.0.1:6900)
   --from value          entry number to start the sync/streaming from (latest|0..N) (default: latest)
   --frombookmark value  bookmark to start the sync/streaming from (0..N) (has preference over --from parameter)
   --header              query file header information (default: false)
   --entry value         entry number to query data (0..N)
   --bookmark value      entry bookmark to query entry data pointed by it (0..N)
   --log value           log level (debug|info|warn|error) (default: info)
   --help, -h            show help
```
Run a datastream client with default parameters (server: `127.0.0.1:6900`, from: `latest`, log: `info`)
```
./dsapp client
```
Or run a datastream client with custom parameters:
```
./dsapp client --server 127.0.0.1:6969 --from 0 --log debug
```
Or just get the current stream header file information:
```
./dsapp client --server 127.0.0.1:6969 --header
```
### RELAY
Use the help option to check available parameters for the relay command:
```
./dsapp help relay
```
```
NAME:
   dsapp relay - Run datastream relay

USAGE:
   dsapp relay [command options] [arguments...]

OPTIONS:
   --server value  datastream server address to connect (IP:port) (default: 127.0.0.1:6900)
   --port value    exposed port for clients to connect (default: 7900)
   --file value    relay data file name (*.bin) (default: datarelay.bin)
   --log value     log level (debug|info|warn|error) (default: info)
   --help, -h      show help
```
Run a datastream relay with default parameters (server: `127.0.0.1:6900`, port: `7900`, file: `datarelay.bin`, log: `info`)
```
./dsapp relay
```

## USE CASE: zkEVM SEQUENCER ENTRIES
Sequencer data stream service to stream L2 blocks and L2 txs

List of events (entry types):

### BatchStart:
uint64 number
BatchType type
uint64 fork_id
uint64 chain_id
Debug debug

### BatchEnd:
uint64 number
bytes local_exit_root
bytes state_root
Debug debug

### L2Block:
uint64 number
uint64 batch_number
uint64 timestamp
uint32 delta_timestamp
uint64 min_timestamp
bytes l1_blockhash
uint32 l1_infotree_index
bytes hash
bytes state_root
bytes global_exit_root
bytes coinbase
uint64 block_gas_limit
bytes block_info_root
Debug debug

### L2BlockEnd:
uint64 number

### Transaction:
uint64 l2block_number
uint64 index
bool is_valid
bytes encoded
uint32 effective_gas_price_percentage
bytes im_state_root
Debug debug

### UpdateGER:
uint64 batch_number
uint64 timestamp
bytes global_exit_root
bytes coinbase
uint64 fork_id
uint64 chain_id
bytes state_root
Debug debug

### BookMark:
BookmarkType type
uint64 value

### Debug:
string message

### BookmarkType:
BOOKMARK_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED = 0;
BOOKMARK_TYPE_BATCH = 1;
BOOKMARK_TYPE_L2_BLOCK = 2;

### EntryType:
ENTRY_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED = 0;
ENTRY_TYPE_BATCH_START = 1;
ENTRY_TYPE_L2_BLOCK = 2;
ENTRY_TYPE_TRANSACTION = 3;
ENTRY_TYPE_BATCH_END = 4;
ENTRY_TYPE_UPDATE_GER = 5;
ENTRY_TYPE_L2_BLOCK_END = 6;

### BatchType:
BATCH_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED = 0;
BATCH_TYPE_REGULAR = 1;
BATCH_TYPE_FORCED = 2;
BATCH_TYPE_INJECTED = 3;
BATCH_TYPE_INVALID = 4;
